RED VELVET SPONGE

350 g butter, room temperature
425 g sugar
3 eggs, large
3 tbsp red gel coloring
2 tsp vanilla extract
½ tsp white vinegar
340 g plain flour
35 g corn starch
2 tbsp cocoa powder
1 tsp baking powder
1 tsp salt
240 ml buttermilk

CREAM CHEESE BUTTER FROSTING

450 g cream cheese
225 g butter, room temperature
2 vanilla pods, seeds scraped out
480 g icing sugar

PREPARATION
Preheat the oven to 175°C. 

Red velvet sponge

Beat butter and sugar until light and fluffy in a bowl.
Beat in the eggs one by one, mixing well before adding the next.
Add coloring, vanilla and vinegar and mix well.
Sift flour, corn starch, cocoa, baking powder and salt into a separate bowl.
Add half of the dry ingredients to the wet mixture and gently fold through with a rubber spatula.
Add the buttermilk and the remaining dry ingredients to avoid lumps in the batter. Fold gently till ingredients are well combined.
Grease a 22 cm cake tin and line the bottom with baking paper.
Pour the batter into it and smooth the surface.
Bake the cake for approx. 70 minutes or until baked, and a skewer inserted in the middle comes out clean. Let the cake cool completely before cutting it into 3 sponge layers.
Cream cheese butter icing

Beat together cream cheese, butter and vanilla seeds.
Add icing sugar to the butter mixture gradually at low speed.
Keep the frosting in the fridge until assembling the cake.
Assembling the cake

Spread out evenly ¼ of the icing on one cake sponge.
Place a second cake sponge on top and repeat with another ¼ of the icing.
Place a third and final cake sponge on top and gently press down to make the cake stable and straight.
Spread out evenly remaining icing on top and sides of the cake. The surface should be completely covered.
Sprinkle the red velvet cake generously with crushed freeze-dried raspberries just before serving.
TIP: You can choose to ice the final layer of your cake in two rounds. Ice the cake with a thin layer and leave it to set in the fridge before completing the final layer.
